

This paper introduces the first state-based formalization of
isolation guarantees. Our approach is premised on a simple
observation: applications view storage systems as black-boxes
that transition through a series of states, a subset of which are
observed by applications. Defining isolation guarantees in terms
of these states frees definitions from implementation-specific
assumptions. It makes immediately clear what anomalies, if any,
applications can expect to observe, thus bridging the gap that
exists today between how isolation guarantees are defined and
how they are perceived. The clarity that results from definitions
based on client-observable states brings forth several benefits.
First, it allows us to easily compare the guarantees of distinct,
but semantically close, isolation guarantees. We find that several
well-known guarantees, previously thought to be distinct, are in
fact equivalent, and that many previously incomparable flavors of
snapshot isolation can be organized in a clean hierarchy. Second,
freeing definitions from implementation-specific artefacts can
suggest more efficient implementations of the same isolation
guarantee. We show how a client-centric implementation of
parallel snapshot isolation can be more resilient to slowdown
cascades, a common phenomenon in large-scale datacenters.
